It's useful to look at examples, in part,
because of the way
the industry has evolved.
First with operational
efficiency companies, and
then secondly, especially more recently,
with disruptors.
We start it by looking at Zillow and
WeWork.
We could also have looked at Trulia,
or Loopnet, or others, or
WeWork and its competitors.
Let's take a look at a couple of those,
first, focusing on the residential
real estate sector.
The residential sector has
long maintained a pricing
system and data availability industrially.
The MLS services or Multiple Listing
Services has been in place for decades and
has been run by local affiliates of NAR,
the National Association of Realtors.
It's a trade organization without
access to so-called MLS data.
Historically, it's been a challenge
to do important exercises
like creating comparables.
Or, ultimately, shopping for purchases, or
understanding what market trends are, for
those who are selling their properties.
Realtors, historically, have had what is,
in essence, special access.
Which has been addressed by some of
the players we've mentioned already.
Today, the Multiple Listing Services is
still owned at least in part by the NAR,
but there has been pressure.
And, of course, the advent of business
models like we've mentioned Zillow,
and Trulia, and Loopnet and Redfin.
Such that the MLS data has been made
available, it's been democratized.
The aggregators have had access to
now bring their business models
out to both consumers and
those intermediaries who serve them,
in accessing, selling,
and buying real estate.
Where we might have expected disruption
to see its greatest influence.
Say, in the historical commission
structure in real estate,
both residential and commercial,
in some areas known as the 6% rule.
There's a 6% commission on some real
estate, split by buyer and seller brokers,
that's been fairly resistant to change.
That having been said, again,
coming back to the model of operational
efficiency and/or disruption.
Technology is now making it
easier to disintermediate
those spread takers, or
those who would compete on price.
It's been possible, although it's been
very challenging without a broker,
to be involved in the real estate market.
And many, many people do that every
year without paying a commission.
But it's been a challenge, in part,
because of the barrier to entry in areas
like pricing, and
knowing what's going on in a given market.
In part, that's because residential
real estate transactions
require a host of Agilent activities.
Including inspections, title services,
evaluations, appraisals and so on.
And that's been generally challenging
without those intermediaries.